# Overview

This module provides Redis database support for the `bal persist` feature, which provides functionality to store and query data from a Redis database through a data model instead of writing Redis commands.

## How to use with `bal persist`
Since Redis is not the default datastore for `bal persist` you need to explicitly specify the data store in your application in either of the following ways,

### Integrate to `bal build`
1. Initialize `bal persist` and integrate to `bal build` using the following command,
    ```
    $ bal persist add --datastore redis --module <module_name>
    ```
2. After defining the entities, build the application using the following command,
    ```
    $ bal build
    ```

### One time generation
1. Initialize `bal persist` using the following command,
    ```
    $ bal persist init --datastore redis
    ```
2. Generate the persist client using the following command,
    ```
    $ bal persist generate --datastore redis --module <module_name>
    ```

## Supported Ballerina data types
The following table lists the Ballerina data types supported by the Redis data store. Following data types will be converted to `string` when inserting data and converted back to relevent data types in ballerina when retrieving.

|  Ballerina Type  |
|:----------------:|
|       int        |
|      float       |
|     decimal      |
|      string      |
|     boolean      |
|    time:Date     |
|  time:TimeOfDay  |
|    time:Civil    |
|     time:Utc     |
|       enum       |

## Configuration

You need to set a value for the following configuration parameter in the `Config.toml` file in your project to use the Redis data store.

| Parameter  |             Description              |
|:----------:|:------------------------------------:|
| connection | The connection URI of the DB server. |

The following is a sample `Config.toml` file with the Redis data store configuration. This is generated by the `persist generate` command.

```toml
[<packageName>.<moduleName>.redis]
connection = "redis://localhost:6379"
```

Alternatively, you can provide connection parameters instead of `URI` as follows.
```toml
[<packageName>.<moduleName>.redis.connection]
host = "localhost"
port = 6379
```

Additionally, you can set values for the advanced configuration parameters in the Config.toml file in your project to use the Redis data store. For more information on these parameters, see the [Redis Connector documentation](https://central.ballerina.io/ballerinax/redis/latest#ConnectionConfig).

## Setup guide

Select one of the methods below to set up a Redis server.

### Setup a Redis server locally
Install a Redis server on your machine locally by downloading and installing it based on your development platform. See the [official Redis documentation](https://redis.io/download/).
  
### Setup using docker
Use Docker to create a DB server deployment.
  1. Install Docker on your machine if you haven't already.
  2. Pull the Redis Docker image from Docker Hub using the command `docker pull redis`.
  3. Run the Redis container as follows `docker run -d -p 6379:6379 --name <container-name> redis`.

### Setup a cloud-based Redis service
Use a cloud-based DB solution such as Google’s Cloud, Amazon’s Web Services, or Microsoft’s Azure database.
   1. Visit [Redis cloud console](https://app.redislabs.com).
   2. Login using email and password or using one of the Single Sign-On options.
   3. Select either one of Amazon Web Services, Google Cloud, or Microsoft Azure as the database vendor.
   4. Select a region and create the database.
   5. Find your `username`, `password` and the `public endpoint`
   6. Replace the `connection` parameter in `Config.toml` file as below
      ```toml
      connection = "redis://<username>:<password>@<public_endpoint>"